d2f: expected failure occurred
d2i: expected failure occurred
d2l: expected failure occurred
dadd: expected failure occurred
dcmpg: expected failure occurred
dcmpl: expected failure occurred
ddiv: expected failure occurred
dmul: expected failure occurred
dneg: expected failure occurred
drem: expected failure occurred
dsub: expected failure occurred
l2d: expected failure occurred
l2f: expected failure occurred
l2i: expected failure occurred
ladd: expected failure occurred
land: expected failure occurred
lcmp: expected failure occurred
ldiv: expected failure occurred
lmul: expected failure occurred
lneg: expected failure occurred
lor: expected failure occurred
lrem: expected failure occurred
lshl: expected failure occurred
lshr: expected failure occurred
lsub: expected failure occurred
lushr: expected failure occurred
lxor: expected failure occurred
